# final-project-WaleedIftikhar-SameerSwarup
A repository for our final project which aims to answer one of the most important questions of all time: Ronaldo or Messi. 

## Background
Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi are inarguably the two best soccer players in the world right now. They have shared the Ballon D’or (the annual award for the best player in soccer) between each other for ten years from 2008-2017. Who is better between the two of them is a topic of frequent debate between many soccer enthusiasts. In fact, many articles, blog posts and websites are dedicated to providing continually updated statistics including goals, assists and trophies won to give evidence about who is the better player between the two.
Our website {insert link} also aims to compare the performance of the two players over their playing years. We aim to compare the most important statistics used to evaluate the performance of a soccer player (goals scored, assists (the number of times the player made the final pass for another player to score a goal) and the number of appearances the player has made. We compare their performances for their respective club teams. Cristiano Ronaldo has played for four different clubs in his playing career including Sporting CP (in Portgual), Manchester United (in England) and Real Madrid (in Spain). He is currently playing for Juventus (in Italy). Lionel Messi, on the other hand, has only played for FC Barcelona (in Spain). In their club careers, we look at how the players have fared against each other in the UEFA Champions League (the biggest competition for soccer clubs in Europe) and in the La Liga (the Spanish national soccer league) when both players were playing for Spanish soccer clubs. We also aim to compare Ronaldo and Messi's performance for their national teams, Portgual and Argentina, respectively. These comparisons will be primarily made through data visualizations (histograms, scatterplots etc).
We also aim to fit a supervised statistical learning model which has the highest accuracy in predicting the Ballon D'or winner (Ronaldo/Messi) for a given year, given their performance statistics for that particular year. 

## Datasets
1. *MessiComplete.csv:* 
   This dataset contains statistics (appearances, goals and assists)  on the performance of Lionel Messi over a period of 17 years from 2004-2020. The statistics have been scraped from various different websites. The dataset contains the total of each type of statistic and there are also variables that breakdown these statistics into country and club. E.g. The dataset contains the total number of Goals Messi scored in 2019 and how many of those he scored while playing for his club, FC Barcelona, and how many he scored playing for his country: Argentina.
2. *RonaldoComplete.csv:*
   It is the exact same dataset as `MessiComplete.csv` in that it contains the exact same information as that Dataset just for Cristiano Ronaldo.
3. *TrophyComparsion.csv:*
   It contains data on the number of team trophies won by both players over their playing careers up to this point. The three types of trophies that we are considering include the European Cup (a competition between the top soccer clubs in Europe), the National League (a competition between the first division clubs in a particular country e.g England) and the Domestic League (a competition between the first, second and third division clubs in a particular country).
 4. *MessiRonaldoComplete.csv:*
    This is a complete version of our dataset which gather the MessiComplete.csv, RonaldoComplete.csv and the TrophyComparison.csv datasets. It also contains the variable `BallonDor` which is an annual award given to the best soccer player of the year. We aim to use this dataset for statistical learning purposes splitting it into a test and training dataset to fit a model on the training data, eventually choosing the model which has the highest accuracy in predicting the BallonDor winner based on the entries in the test dataset. 
5. *MessiRonaldoLonger.csv:*
   This is a longer version of `MessiRonaldoComplete.csv` and it only contains the quantitative variables. It contains the same data with twice the number of rows and half the number of columns. We created this dataset to conduct different types of data visualizations. 
   
## .Rmd Files 
1. *Scraping and Analysis.Rmd:* 
   This file shows our web scraping process where we scraped data from various websites including Wikipedia, and sites dedicated to comparing the performance of the two players such as `messivsronaldo.net`. We scraped data from tables and containers on these web pages. We then cleaned these datasets, inserted appropriate variables where required and then gathered datasets to create two final versions of our data which were `MessiRonaldoComplete.csv` and `MessiRonaldoLonger.csv`. This is an **important file that should be considered to understand our data collection process**.
2. *Shiny Graphs.Rmd:*
   This file is **important because it shows the code for our interactive data visualizations**. These include histograms comparing the distribution of the same stat for the two players over their entire playing careers, and scatterplots comparing their performances in specific competitions. This is important because the Champions League is considered to be the most important competition of the year and if a player is part of the team that wins it, they have a very high likelihood of winning the `BallonD'or`. 
   
   
